Core Java Definition:

What is jdk ?
Answer: is an implementation of either one of the Java SE, Java EE or Java ME platforms released by Oracle Corporation
 in the form of a binary product aimed at Java developers on Solaris, Linux, Mac OS X or Windows.

What jdk contains or composed of or components comes with and define each components?
Answer:java development kit

What is IDE?
Integrated development environment is a software application that provides utilities to computer programmers 
for software development
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse, visual studio
Explain the entire java life cycle.
Editor-> Source code-> Java Compiler ->Byte code -> Java virtual Machine
what is class?
A class is a blueprint in which individual object are created
A class describes an object state and behavior 
What is object?
Object is a representation of real world things.
Object is characterized as something that have state and behavior 
What is the entry point of an application?
main
Why main is static?
To avoid creating a new instance of that class
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
An abstract class can have both abstract and non-abstract method, while an interface must only have abstract method
any class that implement an interface must implements all of the method provided by the interface
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
NO. YOU IMPLEMENT AN interface and extends from an abstract class
what is Access Specifier?
An access  specifier is simply the way a variable, method, or class may be accessed 
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object oriented programming
Abstraction
Encapsualtion
Inheritance 
Polymorphism
What is API?
API are tools(libraries) that assist programers in building application.
Does java support multiple inheritance?
yes and no 
no: a class can not inherit from more than one class in java
yes: you can have multiple inheritance using interface
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method overloading is when a two method or constructor have the same name but different signature 
What is method overriding and when it happens?
when 2 method have the same name and same signature
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program, that disrupts the normal flow of the program's instructions
through try and catch or specify that the methdod might throw exception
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
means that the variable or function is shared between all instances of that class as it belongs to the type,
 not the actual objects themselves. So if you have a variable: 
 private static int i = 0; and you increment it ( i++ ) in one instance, the change will be reflected in all instances.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
final is a keyword. The variable decleared as final should be
	initialized only once and cannot be changed. Java classes
	declared as final cannot be extended. Methods declared as final
	cannot be overridden.
	
	
What is final, finally and finalize?
final is a keyword. The variable decleared as final should be
	initialized only once and cannot be changed. Java classes
	declared as final cannot be extended. Methods declared as final
	cannot be overridden.
	
	
	finalize is a method. Before an object is garbage collected, the
	runtime system calls its finalize() method. You can write system
	resources release code in finalize() method before getting garbage
	collected.
	
	finally is a block. The finally block always executes when the
	try block exits. This ensures that the finally block is executed
	even if an unexpected exception occurs. But finally is useful for
	more than just exception handling - it allows the programmer to
	avoid having cleanup code accidentally bypassed by a return,
	continue, or break. Putting cleanup code in a finally block is
	always a good practice, even when no exceptions are anticipated.
	
What is a constructor ?
A constructor is a bit of code that allows you to create objects from a class. 
You call the constructor by using the keyword new , followed by the name of the class, followed by any necessary parameters.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
Within an instance method or a constructor, this is a reference to the current object — the object whose method or constructor is being called.
You can refer to any member of the current object from within an instance method or a constructor by using this.
What is JVM stand for ?
java virtual machine
What version of java are you using?
java 8
What is JAR stand for ?
Java archive 
What is compile time and run time?
source code
What is heap?
is essentially a large pool of memory (typically per process) from which the running program can request chunks. 
This is typically called dynamic allocation
How java manage it's memory?
java have built in garbage collection that runs from time time to recycle unused memory object
